Many rental properties lack an efficient, centralized and user friendly platform that manages transactions, houses, tenants and caretakers. This problem leads to challenges such as delayed rent payment notice, poor track of transactions due to payments made through diverse methods, poor customer service such as poor or no communication between the tenant and the management leading, dishonest bills such as exaggerated water usage figures and delayed late rent payment. Additionally, it is challenging especially to new tenants to find services such nearby gas exchange centers and skilled personnel to do tasks like fixing the TV stand and Wi-Fi installation.

This systems aims to minimize the above challenges by encouraging online rent payment through M-PESA, allowing the tenant to pay his rent from anywhere and at the same time improving transaction records. Also the property manager is able to send rent payment remainder SMS texts. The system brings services such as checking the rent payment bill to the tenant without the need for him to contact the management, and generating rent payment reports. The system improves transparency and enhances honesty and responsibility as the caretaker is constrained to attach meter photos to meter readings. This way, the tenant is able to monitor his water usage and do comparisons between months. Additionally, the system discourages irresponsible tenancy by penalizing the tenant whenever he is late to pay his rent. The property manager is able to set the due date for rent payments and activate a daily penalty fee for tenants that are late to pay their their monthly rent. The need for caretakers to walk around with cumbersome papers for recording water meter readings is eliminated and therefore the probability for error is greatly reduced. The system allows property managers to upload nearby services like Gas filling stations and their operatives so as to enhance the experience of tenants who will only need to navigate to the services section of the app and request for service delivery. The system will improve the user experience for all its users which is a key determinant in the prosperity of businesses.
